Side channel attack
1. fault analysis attack by dening power 
2.power differntial-power fluctions, power monitoring attack
3. timing attack- amont of time required to process crypto function
4.emanantion fucntion-electro mag field 
etc/shadow file has encrypted password, can be read only by root
etc/password file doesnt have encrypted password.any user can read
GRE is a tunneling protocol that doesnt have source Ip in the header
typosquatting is an intellectual property attack. similar domain names.
cybersquatting is an intellectual attck on trademark.
conuterfeiting is an intellc attack, creating fake product and pass it prendening to be an another entity's product
piracy is an intell attack on copyrights.
double encoding is an attack technique to bypass web applicaitonts existing directory traversal security check.
Phishing involves the receipt of an e-mail message that appears to come from a legitimate enterprise. 
Pharming attacks compromise at the DNS server level, re-directing you to a hacker's site when you type in a company's Web address.
known plaintext attak is a linear cryptaanalysis attack.
meet in the middle attack is to extract encryption keys when plain and cipher text matches.
statistical analysis for cipher only attack
iris scan is most accurate and non invasive control
tokenization is to protect PII and PHI
logically dividing data into table is called 1NF
moving data that depends on primary key is called 2NF
removing data the does not depend on primary key is called 3NF.
there are only three NF.
True positive- malicious traffic identifed
False positive-non malicuious traffic identied as malicious
True negative- non malicious identified as non malicius
false negative- malicious traffic unidentified.
covert timing channel is most difficult to detect and control.
ITIL was developed by CCTA.
Zachman is an enterprise arch.for design doc and specifications. six colums, why, how, what , who,where and when.
SABSA security arc framework-six different perspective but focused on business security.
TOGAF developed by open group. contains 4 domains -business, appliaiton,data and technology. inspired from Dod.
::1 is IPV6 lookback address.
prefix FF is used for IPV6 multicast address.
:: IPV6 unspecified address.
Encryption is most sanitization method to encrypt on SSD's.
Bufferoverflow protection mechanism
1. pointer encoding-microsfot recommends. applies XOr value
2. ALSR- random memory address
Heap meta data protection- forces applicaiton to fail immediately.
Data execution prevention is to prevent executable code from with data pages.
T1 line- 1.55 Mbps ; E1-2.048 mbs.; E3-34.368 MBS, T3-44.736 mbps.
Lexical obfuscation - renaming classes, objects ; data obfus- modifying data
control obfus- making an applicaiton harder to understand to decombile
prevention obfu-make computer harder  to deobfuscate.
EU privacy principl- proporitionality-customize employee monitoring,
Necessity-method of monitoring absolutly neccessary.
finality-specifc, explict and legtimate purpose.
transperancy-disclose monitoring process and reasons to employees.
legitmacy-legal requirement, contract between employee and employer.
security- employer take reasonable preactutions to confidentlty of emplpoyees data.
Ethernet frame check sequence- contains 4 byte cyclic reduanancy check.
ethernet type field contains protocol that receive frame after ethernet processing.2 byte length.
ethernet data field contain frame payload.
Open ID is for decentralizaed authentication.
Relation is called table ; row of data is called tuple, cell contains data;  column of data is called attribute
half duplex ethernet is using CSMA/CD.
blind testing also known as zero knowledge testing.. security staff knowns the information.
dobule blinded- no information to the tester and security staff.
target testing both security staff and tester knwons information
passive infrra red- detecting energy generated by body heat.active infra emtis some form of engery,
phtoelectric emiting beam of light across a path.
microwave motion uses microwave to generate doppler effect.energy emmitted by sensor hit the object and echos back to the sensor.
the strenght of the echo revelas the distance between the sensor and object.
ultrasonic uses sound signals to generate doppler effect.
Negative testing is a form of boundry testing in software testing.values known out of ranges are given input.
positive test to determine whether sw is working as it is designed to work
scenrtio based- to test whether it works based on use case
CRUD test- to ensure db objects are created correctly.
reactive defense measure is that is taken after attack has occured.