compiler- hihg level source into a binary executable.
interpreter language- executes one line at a time
machine langauges- executes directly by the system
assembler- converts assembly langaugae into machine language.
finalists are RC6, Twofish,serpent and rijendal.
Hamming code is used to detect and correct errors in data
ephermal diffi hellman key exchange is temporary . forward secrecy , but no authenticaiton.
Static diffi hellman key exchange is permanant 

BS 7799-1 BS 7799-2 British standard
Iso derived it from BS and name it ISO 17799
Then renamed to ISO 27002 to fit into ISO numbering..

ISO 27001- follows PDCA. Establishing, implementation, control and improvement of the ISMS
ISO 27002(Replaced iso 17799)- provides practical advice for how to implement security controls.uses 10 domains to address ISMS.
ISO 27004- Metrics for measuring the success of ISMS
ISO 27005-RISK MANAGEMENTS
ISO 27799-DIRECTIVES ON PROTECTING PERSONAL HEALTH INFORMATION.

BCP 3 Teams- Resuce ; recovery and salvage
Rescue- responsible for dealing with immediacy of disaster, ex- employee evacuation
Recovery- responsible for getting the alternate facility up and running
salvage- responsible for the retrun of operation to the original or permanant facility.
reconstitution(restore least operations first)	
OEP- occupant emergency plan- foucs on Personnel, not business or IT.
crisis communication plan- status report to personnel and public, not IT focused.
Disaster recover plan is more IT focused.
Sustain- contunuity of operations plan(COOP)- alternate facility for 30 days.

access triple-user->transformation procedure-CDI(constrained data item)
vernam cipher- one time pad
vignere cipher- polyalphabetic cipher
ceaser cipher- substituion cipher
symmetric- stream cipher(RC4) and block cipher(AES/3DES)
stream ciher uses XOR(if the values are same it is 0, if it is different, then it is 1)
data exchange- symmetric; key exchange- asymmetric. 	tls uses hybrid/ asymmetric
asymetric key formula=2N
Asymmetric algorithms are DSA, RSA, ECC, EL GAMAL, DIFFIE HELLMAN, KNAPSACK.
RSA uses factorizatrion.
diffie hellman- first asymmetric algorithm, based on discrete logarithm.key agreement based.
ECC- based on plotting points upon a curve
hasing(only good for accidential modification)- integrity.
MAC provides reasinable authenticity and integrity not strong enough to be non repudiation becoz it uses symmetric  key.
brithday attack is an attempt to cause collision.
lesser known hashing algorithms are RipeMD, Tiger, whirlpool, HAVAL.
MD5-128 bit, SHA1-160 Bit , SHA-256
Integrity check value- Authentication header(AH)
Oakley uses diffie hellman to agree upon a key
OSI- Open systems interconnect.
twisted cable is least secure.
fiber optical- most secure
mesh- most fault tolerent, fully redunant, partial mesh is often used to spare cost. connected to multiple computers.
LLC -error detction; MAC- CSMA/CD; CSMA/CA
Token passing- no collision.
switch does not isolate broadcast natively.
All protocols starts with letter I are layer 3 protocols except IMAP(LAYER 7)
LOKI Attack- sending data in iCMP headers- covert channel
smurf-icmp- uses spoofed source address(target) and directed broadcasts to launch a DDos.
SSL/TLS -layer 4 transport protocol. operates through 4-7
FTP uses TCP;tftp uses UDP.
layer 6 does encryptipm, compression and formatting.; file level encryption.
no protocol in presentation layer
synflood, fraggle exploits udp in transport layer
ping flood/death/loki smurf spoof in network later
statefull firewall works at session layer.layer 5. circuit level firewall at layer 5.they monitor TCP HANDSHAKE.
worm-self replicating
virus- need user action to spread.
mututal authentication would prevent session hijacking.
encryption prevents sniffing
ping of death- larget ping volume
ping flood- overwhelming systems.
teardrop- sending malformed packets which OS doesnt know how to assemble
bonk- similar to teardrop.
land attack-source and destination are same
syn flood-exploits three way handshake
smurf- icmp
fraggle-udp.
packet filters are also called screening routers.
Servers hardened in dmz is called bastian host.
RFC1918- private IP address. 10. ; 172.16-172.31 ;192.168
Blue jacking- sending spam to nearby bluetooth services
blue snarfing- copies information of remote devices
blue bugging - serious issue, allows to make callsm eavesdrop, full use of phone
RBAC- Role based sometimes called non-discrentionary. authorization creep may occurif we dont remove the user from role.
SSO systems are kerberos, LDAP, Sesame, kryptoknight.
radius doesnt encrypt value pairs
RADIUS/802.1x
red teams(attack); blue team(defend)
Direct evidence- witness who saw the crime
real evidence- physical evidence like gun, laptop
best evidence(Most reliable)- signed contract
secondary evidence- expert opinion. to support things.
Corroborative evidence- support evidence.
Circumstantial- suggest another. cant stand on its own.
Hearsay- usually not admissable. copies of document. ex: i heard that john heard
Demonstrative- presentation based- pics, x rays, diagrams. visual related.
RAID1 is considered to be least efficient usage of space(50%)
Clustering- Group of servers that are managed as a single system.
full backup - archive bit is rest
incremental - back up all files that have been modeifed since last backup. archive bit is reset
Differential- Back up all files that have been modified since last full back up. archive bit is not reset
waterfall model- good for small projects.
prototyping- user can identify needed changes and refine requirements.sw developers use short cuts to develop prototype and donot follow formal procedures
spiral- costly- early risk analysis done. good for large projects.expertise required
agile- most of them use- very flexible. brainstorm, design,development,qulaity assurance,deployment.adaptable to change requiremnt, cons-lack of documenenttion.
used in projects where requirements changes frequently.

loose coupling minimizes dependcies.
XSS takes advantage of trust i have in web
CSRF takes advantage of trust a website has in me.
CWE- Common weakness enumeration
NVD- national vulnerability database
collection of attributes in single is tuple
overall db sturcture in schema