IPSEC- it uses public key cryptography to provide encryption, access control, non-repudiation and message authentication. Primary for VPN. It can operate in transport or tunnel mode.
SSH- good example of end to end encryption technique.
Signal protocol - this is a cryptographic protocol that provides end to end encryption for voice communications, videoconferencing and text message services. It is a nonfederated protocol
S-RPC- authentication service.
SSL- 128 bit key.
TLS- it uses stronger authentication and encryption protocols. When it is implemented at layer 3 for VPN, it is called OpenVPN.
TLS also used in UDP to encrypt and in session initiation protocol connections. SIP is a protocol associated with VoiceIP.
PAP-Password authentication protocol – standard protocol for PPP. It transmits username and password in clear text.
CHAP- Challenge handshake authentication protocol- this is used over PPP links. It encrypts user name and password. It performs challenge response dialog that cannot be replayed. It keeps reauthenticating
EAP- extensible authentication protocol- this is a framework for authentication instead of an actual protocol. It allows for customization
Secure real time transport protocol(SRTP) is used in many VOIP communications.
attackers known as phreakers abuse phone systems in much the same way that attackers abuse computer networks
phreaker tools are black box – manipulates line voltages to steal long distance 
Red box is used to stimulate tones of coins being deposited into a pay phone
Blue box is used to stimulate 2600 Hz tones to interact directly with the phone network trunk systems
White box is used to control the phone system. It is a dual tone multifrequency generator(DTMF)
email systems relay on x.400 standard
Sendmail is the most common for SMTP server for unix systems. Exchange is most common for Microsoft systems.
S/MIME-Secure multipurpose internet mail extension - it is an email security standard that provides authentication and confidentiality to email through public key encryption and digital signatures. 
Authentication is provided through x.509 digital certificates. Privacy provided through use of public key cryptography standard (PKCS) encryption
1.Signed message 2. secured enveloped message. Singed message provides integrity, sender authentication and non-repudiation. enveloped message provides integrity, sender authentication and confidentiality.
MIME Object security services (MOSS)- it employs MD2 and MD5 algorithms.RSA public key and DES. It provides integrity, confidentiality, authentication and non-repudiation
Privacy enhanced mail (PEM) – it uses RSA, DES and X.509. provides integrity, confidentiality, authentication and non-repudiation
Domiankeys identified mail(DKIM)- it is to assert that valid mail is sent by an organization through verification of domain name identity. 
Pretty good privacy -is a public-private key system that uses a variety of encryption algorithms to encrypt files and email messages. The first version used RSA and second version used IDEA
PGP is not a standard, but rather an independently developed product that has wide internet support
Sender policy framework – to protect against spam and email spoofing. It will check the mail whether to allow or not.
Point to point protocol(PPP)- full duplex protocol used for transmitting TCP/IP packets over various non LAN connections, such as modem,ISDN, VPN, framerelay. 
Protection is through CHAP and PAP.PPP is a replacement for SLIP .
SLIP- Serial line internet protocol -older technology developed to support TCP/IP over asynchronous serial connections. It requires static IP and no error detection or correction.
RADIUS – used to centralize authentication of remote dial up connections . remote access sever pass logon credential to radius server for authentication.It uses UDP 1812 and TCP 2083 over tls.
TACACS integrate authentication and authorization process
XTACACS keeps authentication authorization and accounting process separate. 
TACACS+ improves by adding two factor authentication and it is the most current version. it uses TCP 49.
PPTP doesn’t support radius and TACACS+.
Layer 2 forwarding and L2TP- cisco developed its own protocol called layer2 forwarding
Vlan 1 very typically is the designated management traffic Vlan
SDN- Software defined networking – it aims at separating the infrastructure layer from control layer. This also removes the traditional networking concepts of IP addressing, subnets, routing
SDN offers new network design that is directly programmable from a central location, is flexible, open standard based. 
PAT maps one internal IP to an external IP with port number combination.
Private IP address
10.0.0.0- 10.255.255.255.255(Full A class range)
172.16.0.0-172.31.255.255(16 class b range)
192.168.0.0- 192.168.255.255(256 class C range)
Automatic private IP addressing(APIPA)- from the range 169.254.0.1 to 169.254.255.254.
PVC(permanent virtual circuit)- is a two way connection.
Dedicated line/leased line – always available. T1, T3, E1, E3 and partial T1
Nondedicated line- standard modems, DSL and ISDN are example of this.
BRI- Basic rate interface – it offers connection with two B channels and one D channel. B channel for data with 64kbps throughput and D channel for call with 16kbp
PRI- Primary rate interface -it offers multiple b Channel connection with 64kbps and single D channel with 64kbps. So total 192kbps and upto 1,544 mbps
CSU/DSU contains data terminal equipment and data circuit terminating equipment(DTE/DCE
CSU/DSU acts as translator .
X.25 -is an older packet switching technology it uses permanent virtual circuit. Lower performance
Frame relay -It is a connection oriented packet switching technology -it supports multiple PVCs 
ATM- asynchronous transfer mode is a cell switching WAN communication technology. Fixed length 53 byte cells. Very efficient and high throughputs. It can use wither PVC or SVC.
SMDS-Switched multimegabit data service is a connectionless packet switching technology. It is often used to connect multiple LAN to create MAN. high throughput.
SDH and SONET are fiber optic high speed networking standards. Both support mesh and ring topologies.
SDH was by International telecommunication and SONET by American national standard. High speed duplex communications
SDLC- Synchronous data link control- for permanent physical connection. It uses polling. Layer 2. 
HDLC- high level data link control – supports full duplex it also uses polling, layer 2. It offers flow control and error detection and correction.
PPP is an encapsulation protol.





