collision- It means when two objects strike, or run into one another
Collusion - It means who two or more persons agree (in secret) to commit a criminal act, like fraud
Snooping- the action of furtively trying to find out something, especially information about someone's private affairs.	
eavesdropping- secretly listen to a conversation.
war dialing - is a technique to automatically scan a list of telephone numbers, usually dialing every number in a local area code to search for modems, computers
entrapment -the action of tricking someone into committing a crime in order to secure their prosecution
enticement- something used to attract or to tempt someone; a lure
espinoage -the practice of spying or of using spies, typically by governments to obtain political and military information. disclosure info.
sabotage -deliberately destroy, damage, or obstruct (something), especially for political or military advantage.
permutation -the action of changing the arrangement, especially the linear order, of a set of items
evil twin- An evil twin is a fraudulent Wi-Fi access point that appears to be legitimate but is set up to eavesdrop on wireless communications
daisy chaining -connect (several devices) together in a linear series
shimming-wedge (something) or fill up (a space) with a shim
pivot-Pivoting is the unique technique of using an instance (also referred to ... to attack this second network through our first compromised machine.
FEMA- Federal emergency management agency is responsible for providing data about flood risk.
common mode noise- diefference between hot and ground wire of a power.
hot site- maximum 6 hrs, warm site-maxmimum 12 hours
Troajn horse- rogue antivirus as users install from web.
frequency analysis attack is - when you have access to  encrypted message, but no other information.
Transformation procedures(TP)- only alloed to modify CDI in clark-wilson model
operation security triple- relationship of asset, vuln and risk
concentric circule-multiple layers of malware protection distributed.
Security label- protect against tampering.
mean time between failure-provides the expected life span on storage.
Directive control- guides org security implementation as such control statements.
BCP implementaiton - invloves sw, hw resources
Restoration-involves restoring a business facility and environment to a workable state.
control signing- finds the originate of trusted source by using digital signature.
1000 building fire- in a day in US
Tripwire-scans filesystem for unexpected modification and reports to us periodically.
Differential backups- store all files that have been modified since the time of the most recent full backup. They do not alter the archive bit.
Abstraction- states that a detailed understanding of lower system levels is not a necessary requirement for working at higher levels.
Trade secrets- are one of the best legal protections for computer software.
most APTs are military attacks, sponcered by goverment.
remote mirroring - is the most advanced off site backup option.
Perfect forward secrecy-ECDHE implement this.
PBKDF2-Key stretching technology
Soft destruction- deleting, formatting, degaussing
physical destruction-shredders, disk crush
Incineration, pulverizing, melting and acid are also (very rarely) used to ensure full data destruction.
classification - is that it is the duty of the data owner to classify data.
Categorization - This is used to identify information assets/types with regard to their impact if lost.
Errors of omission-These result from lack of documentation around known legitimate values. These are harder to detect
Errors of Commission: Much simpler to detect and usually results from data entry.
Data Verification: It is used to verify that data in hand and at source matches, less expereienced personnel can do
Data Validation - It is used to evaluate the goals with the derived data.only expertise can do
transitive trust - is a concept that if A trusts B and B trusts C, then A inherits trust of C through the transitive property
confinement - is implemented through process isolation. cannot access byeond allocated memory.
Bounds- states the area within which a process is confined or contrained. it sets authority level. it is a logical area.
assurance- degree of confidence
information flow model- based on state machine model(always secure)
Bell-lapudla and BIBA-information flow model
Bell is concerned with preventing information flow from high security level to low security.
BIBA is concerned with low security to high security. It also addresses cover channels by specifically excluding all non-defined flow pathways.
non-interference model- based on information flow model, protection against trojan horse.. 
Non-interference is concerned with how subject at a higher security level affect the system state or the action of a subject at lower security level.
cascading-input for one system comes from the output of another system.
feedback- one system provide an input to another system.
hookup- one system send inout to another system and also send input to external entities.
capabilities list is tied to subject. ACL is tied to object
* security property in bell model also called confinement property.
BIBA doesnt prevent covert channel.
access control triple- subjects,programs and objects.
IVP integrity verification procedure is a procedure that scans data items and confirm their integrity. 
in clark wilson model -It uses security labels to grant access to objects 
Brewer and Nash model (aka Chinese model) – it was created to permit access controls to change dynamically based on user’s previous activity.
Goguen -meseguer model – is an integrity model, noninterence model- based on automation theory and security domain. predetermined actions and cannot access other domains.
Sutherland model- system states,initial states and state transisiton. It prevents covert channel.
Graham- denning model – focused on the secure creation and deletion of both subjects and objects. eight primary protection rules.
TCSEC -A1- verified protection ; B3-security domains(Focus on vulnerability); B2- structured protection (it ensures that no covert channel exist);B1-labeled security. 
C2-Controlled access protection(It enforces media cleansing to avoid remnant).C1-Discretionary protection ; D-Minimal protection.
Green book –(password) ; yellow book(environment); tan book(audit) ; bright blue(product evaluation for vendors)
Issues with TCSEC- 1. Doesn’t cover integrity, accuracy 2. Doesn’t cover what user do with information 3. Does not cover procedural, policy matters. 4. Orange book only for standalone systems.
TCSEC Classes and required functionality  ; ITSEC Classes and required assurance and functionality .
ITSEC refers to any systems being evaluated as TOE target of evaluation ,ITSEC covers integrity and availability in addition to confidentiality. 
common criteria- protection profile PP (I want from customer voice )and security target ST(I will provide from vendor voice)
EAL1- Functionally tested; EAL2- Structurally tested ; EAL3-Methodically tested and checked ; EAL4 -Methodically tested, checked and reviewed ; 
EAL5-Semi formally designed and tested ; EAL6- semi formally verified, designed and tested ; EAL7-formally verified designed and tested.
Two government standards are currently in place for the certification and accreditation of computing system. The current DoD standard is RMF. Risk management framework
The standard for all other US govt executive branch departments is CNSS (committee on national security system) 
system security authorization agreement (SSAA).
For system accreditation – major application or system is evaluated; for site accreditation – applications and system at specific location is evaluated; 
for type accreditation -system or application that is distributed to number of different locations is evaluated.
HSM- hardware security module-it adds tamper protection. TPM is one example of HSM. It provides 2048 bit asymmetric

.