HTTP- tcp based
Radius- UDP
SMB- tcp
imap-tcp
SNMP-udp
NTP-udp
tftp-udp
DNS-name reslution - udp
smtp-tcp
secure ldap-tcp
BGP-TCP
DHCP-UDP
anything starts with 2 & 3, globally routable IP - 8 blocks. g should not be there. it should be f
anything starts with f, locally routalble Ip address.
anything starts with ff and ending ee is multicast and globally routable IP address
LAND attack - both source and destiation IP are same
teardrop- fragemtnation packets attack. reassemble .
fraggle attack -udp ; sumrf- icmp
Presentation layer encapsulates the message by adding information to it, called header, at times end of the message, called footer.
Application layer- data stream until it reaches transport layer. In transport layer it is called segment or datagram (TCP protocols)UDP ;
In network layer it is packet. In datalink layer it is frame. In physical layer -bits.
Physical layer- bits to frame and frame to bit conversion. SONET, HSSI, V.24 and V.35 , x.21, EIA/tia232,449, NIC at physical layer, hubs, repeaters, concentrators and amplifiers.
Ethernet(IEEE 802.3) , token ring(IEEE 802.5), 
data link layer-Protocols in this layer are SLIP, PPP,ARP, L2F, L2TP, PPTP, ISDN. 
media access control which is a 6byte -48 bits binary address(MAC address).
The first 3 bytes denote the vendor or manufacture of the physical network interface.This is known as organizationally unique identifier(OUI).
Last 3 bytes represent unique number to that interface by the vendor
Network layer – ICMP, RIP, OSPF, BGP, IGMP, IP, IPSEC, IPX, NAT, SKIP. 
network layer is responsible for routing information but doesn’t guarantee verifying. Verifying is the role of transport layer.
Network layer manages error detection/traffic control.
Non IP protocols are IPX, Appletalk and NetBEUI.
Two routing protocols – Distance vector -it maintains the destination networks along with metrics of direction, distance and hops. RIP and IGRP are distance vector protocols
Link state maintain topography map to find shortest path to the destination.
Transport layer – responsible for managing the integrity of the connection and controlling the session. It accepts a PDU(Payload data unit). 
Transport layer does segmentation, sequencing, error checking, controlling the flow of data, error correction, multiplexing and network service optimization. Protocols are TCP, UDP, SPX, SSL and TLS.
session layer Protocols are NFS, SQL, RPC.
presentation layer -ASCII, EBCDICM, TIFF, JPEG, MPEG, MIDI
Applicaiton layer -HTTP, FTP, LPD, SMTP, Telnet, TFTP, EDI, POP3, IMAP, SNMP, NNTP, SET. Gateway works at application layer.
TCP/IP Model – also called DARPA or DOD model. Consists of four layers. 1. Application (also known as process), 2 Transport(host to host) ,3 Internet(internetworking ) , Link(network interface)
TCP wrapper is an application that can server as a basic firewall by restricting access to ports and resources based on user IDs or user system IDs. Using TCP wrappers is a form of port-based protocol
Transport layer protocols -TCP is full duplex and UDP is simplex.
The combination of IP address and port is known as Socket. 
TCP-Data flow is controlled through a mechanism called sliding window
TCP header is 20 -60 bytes long. TCP field value is 6.
UDP field value is 17. Four parts, source, destination address, message length and checksum
IPV4 use 34 bit addressing scheme. IPV6 uses 128bits.
icmp-Codes – 0 echo reply , 3- destination unreachable , 5-redirect, 8-echo request ,9- router advertisement , 10- router solicitation , 11- time exceeded.
TCP/IP is a multilayer protocol. Vlan hopping attack- is performed by creating a double encapsulated IEEE 802.1Q Vlan tag.
Total length of FQDN can’t exceed 253 characters.Any single section can’t exceed 63 characters. 
converged protocals are Fcoe, mpls, voip, sdn, iscsi.
Wireless access points should be configured to work in infrastructure mode, not ad hoc mode.
Stand -alone – connecting two wireless clients ; wired extension – when the wireless access point act as a connection point to link the wireless clients to wired network. 
An enterprise extended – when multiple wireless access points are used to connect large physical area to the same wired network.
Bridge mode is used when wireless connection connects two wired connection
WEP uses RC4.WPA uses LEAP and TKIP, WPA2 uses CCMP(AES)
PEAP provides encryption for EAP methods.
CCMP- it uses 128 bit key - 802.11i
Thinnet also known as 10Base2- 185 meters and 10Mbps throughput. Used for connecting to backbone trunks of thicknet. 
Thicknet also known as 10Base5 , 500 meter and 10Mbps throughput
UTP is often referred as 10baseT, 100BaseT or 1000BaseT.
FHSS- frequency hopping spread spectrum- not in parallel. It is in serial , changing the frequency frequently.
DSSS- Direct sequence spread spectrum – in parallel. This provides higher rate of data throughput than FHSS.
OFDM-Orthogonal frequency division multiplexing – it employs digital multicarrier modulation scheme. Signals are perpendicular.
Bluetooth 802.15 
bluejacking- allows an attacker to send SMS to your device
Bluesnarfing allows hacker to connect your Bluetooth devices without your knowledge and extract information
Bluebugging is an attack that grants hackers remote control over the feature and function of Bluetooth device. This can turn on micrphone to use the phone as an audio 
Generally Bluetooth range is 30 ft some have 100 meters.
CSMA/CD- collision detection -it listens for collision. If detected it transmits jam signal
Token passing -using digital token . it prevents collision. 	
Polling -using master -slave configuration.SDLC uses polling. Primary systems ask secondary system whether to transmit data.


