cybersquatting is an intellectual proprty attack.focusing on trademark
Typosquatting is an intellectual property attack focus on trademark
piracy attack focus on copyrights.
chinese wall model is also known as brewer-nash model is used to mitigate conflict of interest.
Bluetooth uses weak encryption ciper, E0-128bit key
sensitive data exposure risk increase between 2013-1027 accoridng to OWASP Top 10 list
TACACS+ encrypts username and password.
ECB mode in DES can leave patterns in ciphertext
another name for hypervisor is virtual machine monitor
in brute force attack, attacker has access only to the cipher text.
T1 line for circuit switched WAN as it needs dedicated circuit.
RAID 10 provides striping for a set of mirrored disks
rlogin, ftp and tel net are not encrypted
CPU process stage- fetch, decode, execute and write
standards define the technical aspects of a security program.
exigent circumstances - can seize evidence withouta warrant in irder to protect evidence
corrective access control- to repair demages(antivirus/IPS
recovery access control- resore to normal state after malicious activity has occured.
Roation of duties- expensive to implement due to training cost
confiscate meaning is take/ seize someone's property with authorty
state attack - race condition( toctou)
a lockdown enclosure is designed to prevent theft of computer equipment.
polyinstantiation is an OOPS concept in which two objects based on the same class can process data independently.
TFTP port 69
Lipnet model combines bell lapudula and Biba
SHA can create maxmimum 512 bit hash value.
latest means last.
BCP stages- 1. develop bcp statement, 2. conduct BIA.3. idenitfy preventive control,4. develop recovery stragey
5.develop an IT contigncy plan , 6. Perform DRP training and testing , 7. Perdorm bcp/dr maintance
Tripwire is a HIDS
In security domains , subjects and objects have same security requirements
Pharming attackes are DNS related.
skimming attack-unauthorized device that can be attached to credit/debit card devices.
keyboard interactive for SSH authentication.
2SA's are required to establish a vpn tunnel. for two sites- 4 SA Required
security marking reflects applicable laws, directives , polices....
security marking refers to the use of human readable seurity attributes.security labling refers security attributes for internal
data structre within informaiton system.
Vigenere cipher uses square matrix to encrypt text.
FM 200 used for gas based fire suppresin in data center.
multi homed device means more than one network connection in firewall.	
AH is typically used with ESP in transport mode, not in tunnel mode bcoz Ip headers are encrypoted.
realtion is another name for table in relational database.
Defects density is a metric determines the aveerage number of defects per line of code.
Risk density is a secure development metric that ranks security issues
function point is a metrics estimates size of the application by the number of Line of code.
software analysis uses decompiling and reverse engfinnering to detect malicius activity.
replay attack vuln for kerberos

