Facility design- secured architecture, called crime prevention through environmental design(CPTED)
Functional order 1. Deterrence 2 denial 3. Detection 4. Delay
Aging hardware should be scheduled for replacement and to repair. It should be based on mean time to failure (MTTF) a mean time to repair (MTTR)
MTTF is expected typical functional lifetime of the device.
MTTR is average time to repair that device
MTBF- mean time between failure is, between first and subsequent failures
Wiring closets – it is also called as premises wire distribution room and intermediate distribution facilities (IDF) common copper based twisted cable length is 100 mtr
Entrance facility – also known as demarcation point. 
Backbone distribution system – this provides wired connection between equipment room and telecommunication rooms including cross floor connections
Common mode noise is generated by a difference in power between hot and ground wires of a power source or operating electrical equipment
Traverse mode noise generated by a difference in power between hot and neutral wires of a power source or operating electrical equipment
60-75 degree Fahrenheit (15-23 degree Celsius)
Humidity in computer room should be maintained between 40-60 percent
Too much humidity can cause corrosion. Too little humidity can cause static electricity.
40 -destruction of sensitive circuits and other electrical components.1000 -scrambling of monitor displays
1500- destruction of data stored on hard drive .2000-abrupt system shutdown
4000- Printer jam or component damage.17000- Permanent circuit damage
Water suppresses temperature; soda acid and other dry powders suppress the fuel supply.
CO2 suppress oxygen supply ; halon and other non flammable gases interfere with the chemistry of combustion and suppress the oxygen supply.
fire stages -combustion and suppress the oxygen supply.
Fire stages – step 1 incipient step 2- smoke step 3- flame step 4- heat.
Fire extinguishers 
Class A common combustibles – water, soda acid (dry powder or liquid chemical)    --- CLASS B in UK
Class B liquids – CO2, halon soda acid                   CLASS A IN UK IS PAPER WOOD.
Class C electrical – CO2, halon                     IN UK, FLAMMABLE GAS IN CLASS C 
Class D metal – Dry powder                         CLASS D IN UK
Wet pipe- also known as closed head system is always full of water. Water discharges immediately when suppression is triggered.
Dry pipe -it contains compressed air , when suppression is triggered, air escapes , opening water valve that fill the pipe and discharge water
Deluge system is another form of dry pipe that uses larger pipes and delivers larger volume of water. This is inappropriate for the environment which has computers, electrical equipment.
Preaction system – is a combination of dry /wet pipe systems. It exists as dry pipe during initial stages of fire and then pipes are filled with water. 
The water is released only after sprinkler head activation triggers.. manual intervention also be applied . this is the most appropriate system for the environment that has both people and equipment.
100 degree temperature can damage storage tapes, 175 degree damages CPU, hardware. 350 degree damages paper product.
Infrared -monitors significant or meaningful changes in the infrared lighting pattern of a monitored area 
Heat based – changes in the heat levels and patterns 
wave pattern transmits low ultrasonic or high microwave frequency signal to check the changes or disturbance 
Capacitance motion-senses changes in electrical or magnetic field 
photoelectric senses changes in visible light levels. It is installed in rooms that have no window and kept dark
Passive audio motion listens for abnormal sounds in the monitored area.
Deterrent alarms- to avoid further access/damages 
Repellant alarms – triggers lights and sound to discourage intruders
Notification alarm -silent alarm
Local alarm system -upto 120db sound
Central station system- silent , but central team notifies
Auxiliary systems – to notify policy, fire station and medical service



