retinal scan would be most effective way to control access at the perimeter.
Diffie hellman and elgamala key use discrete algorithm
slack space in disk is "unused space in a cluster"
RIPV1 does not support MD5 for routing updates.
only hot site support DRP testing .
If relaying is enabled on email server, spammers will use open smtp  relays to send spam.
anonymization cannot be reversed when implemented properly.
SIEM is a centralized applicaiton.
transient- lasting only for short time.
HTTPS require both symmetric and asymmetric keys. S-HTTP require only symmetric.
HTTPS encrypts entire message
TCB describes that all the components of a system that are responsible for system security
IEEE 802.1X defines a method that uses EAP to establish port based connections.
paging is a memory protection technique that copies a fixed lenght block of a memory to disk.
swapping is a memory protection technique that copies entire process.
100base-FX provides 100 mbps speed for 2 kilometers.
salts are added to hashing functions
nonces are used to increase randomness and complexity of cryptogrepahic	 functions to mitigate reply attacks.
Redbook is for US dod standard for networked systems.
garbage collection will mitigate object resuse vulnerability
PGP can be used to encrypt disk drives, not only email message, but s/mime cannot encrypt disk drives.
Lock bumping is least likely to be a vulnerability with using a lock with dial combination.
base metrics by vendor.
temporal is abour urgecny, by vendor
environmental metric is by end user organizaiton.
cipher text only uses frequency analysis method.
SEAL-Software encryption algorith(Seal) USES 160 Bits to
 encrypt data
SHA1 does not use 160 bit key. it creates 160 bit hash value
FM13 is the safest fire suppression system in an electrical environment. replacement for halon
one time password is most difficutl to manage as it is a shirt string of characters.
Brute force attack uses rainbow table to compare hashes.
Multi threading assigns time among child process.
baselining monitors changes over time to check what changes have been maded from baseling.
XACML is an OASIS standard, commonly used in SDN systems
SAML is an OASIS standard, used in web application
SPMl is an xml based  open standard by OASIS. used for SSO.
smoke sensor uses an electrical charge.
oauth 2.0 is an open standard.
802.11a, g and n uses OFDM ; 802.b uses DSSS
primary funciton of system unit contains all internal components of the computer system.	
Object orionted database combines data and functioin in code accessable framework.
switches forward broadcast frames and multicast frames.
circuit level firewall works at session layer.