ethernet frame check sequance
linear cryptanalysis
OAuth, oauth connect, oauth2.01, 1.0
IPV6
normal froms db


active x control isa client based technology uses digital certificate
pointer encoding is a buffer overflow protection mechanism that micrsoft recommends.

read about photoelectric, micrwave, utltrsonic, passive infra

delaying is the primary security perimeter

oauth 2.0 is authorization framework that provides third party application with delegated access to resoruce without providing owners credential to application
oauth2.0 in RFC 6749, oauth 1.0 is RFC5849

open id and open id connect is for decentralized authentication. it provides you one login for multiple sites.

offshoring is another country
read about isc2 ethics from isc2 website

ITIL Was created by CCTA
abstraction is hiding
READ about SDLC, HDLC
csma/CD Uses half duplex ethernet
fiber optic is immune to unauthrozied interception


EPA approved substitues for Halon are FM200. FM13. CEA-410. NAF-SIII, Argon, inergen and aero-K

every combination- brute force attack
database dictonary- dictonary attack
against hash table- rainbow attack.

patent requires public disclosure, trade secret is kept secured.
Frequency analysis attack happens when the attacker has access to encrypted message , but no other information
clerk-wilson model is also called restricted interface model
security label provides against tampering as it is always attached to the object
MTBF/MTTF is to rate the life expentancy
SABTOAGE IS a criminal act
behaviour based IDS is called expert system
Systems running in system-high mode are authorized to process data at different classification levels only if all system users have access to the highest level of classification processed.
The modified waterfall process differs from the standard waterfall process by adding validation and verification phases.
Control signing utilizes a system of digital signatures to ensure that the code originates from a trusted source. 
-It is up to the end user to determine whether the authenticated source should be trusted.
The Communications Assistance to Law Enforcement Act (CALEA) requires all communications carriers to make wiretaps possible for law enforcement with an appropriate court order.
Trade secrets are one of the best legal protections for computer software.
The parol evidence rule states that a written contract is assumed to contain all the terms of an agreement and cannot be modified by a verbal agreement.
Phone phreaking attacks are designed to obtain service while avoiding financial costs.
Recovery access control is deployed to repair or restore resources, functions, and capabilities after a violation of security policies.
In penetration testing (or hacking in general), a pivot is the action or ability to compromise a system and then using the privileges or accessed gained through the attack to focus attention on another target that may not have been visible or exploitable initially. 
It is the ability to adjust the focus or the target of an intrusion after an initial foothold is gained
Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman Ephemeral, or Elliptic Curve Ephemeral Diffie-Hellman (ECDHE), implements perfect forward secrecy through the use of elliptic curve cryptography (ECC).
 PBKDF2 is an example of a key-stretching technology not directly supporting perfect forward secrecy. HMAC is a hashing function. OCSP is used to check for certificate revocation.

Privacy impact assessment - GDPR audit
1. what information is collected? why the info is collected? source of the information ? how it is collected? what are the risks ?

